Let's talk about Views.
We're gonna come back to
indexes a little bit later.
And we're gonna do a bit of a magic trick.
I'm gonna show you how to speed
up a query by 4,000,000%,
which I'm pretty excited to do it.
It's the crown jewel of this course.
But we have to work up to it.
It's gonna be the combination
of a lot of concepts.
First, let's talk about views.
Let's go back to English category names,
we talked a little bit about that, right?
Let's fathom for a moment.
Again, we have this website,
we have that we're mostly showing English
category names, and we don't need
to show French, Italian, German.
We could, every single time,
do this query of SELECT category_id,
name, language.
FROM category_names WHERE language = 'en'.
Right, and we can do this literally every
single time that we need to populate
this database Any time that
we have to do any joins,
we, By the way, I don't vet anything
that goes into this that shows up.
So if something weird shows
up as like a category name,
I swear to God ,I didn't put it there.
I was worried for a second that I
saw that something is gonna be bad.
So far so bad, for-
>> Number 17 looks like German.
[LAUGH]
>> It probably is.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So the data integrity here is not
the best either, but it was free,
which was the correct price.
So this is burdensome to have
to do this every single time.
And anytime that I wanna do a join,
I have to join this big,
massive thing and I have to know
where everything is coming from.
I don't like it, I wish it was easier.
It'd be nice if there was just a table
that had just the English names on it,
right?
And I didn't have to do any
sort of fun join to get that.
But turns out, there's a way to do that.
And it's as easy as I'm just gonna
say in front of the SELECT statement.
I'm just gonna say CREATE VIEW
english_category_names as blah, as query.
Now, if you look at my tables here,
you can see actually have
a view as an entry here.
And it looks just like a table.
It has a category name,
a link and a language.
So now I can just say SELECT
* FROM english_category_names
And you know what I did that
I should not have done?
>> Put the LIMIT 5.
>> I put the limit on there.
So it's actually only gonna
get the first five ever.
So let's actually DROP VIEW
english_category_names,
and we're gonna recreate that.
You could alter the query as well,
but we're not gonna do that.
But now we can do that and say, LIMIT 5,
or LIMIT 15 so that we get more, right?
This is now a trillion times easier for
us to deal with, Right,
we don't have to do any expensive joins or
anything like that, we can just get,
it's basically a lens.
If you're familiar with
the programming concept of lens,
there's some languages that
are like really big into it.
It's a way of looking at data,
but it's derived and
can alter the data as it
goes through a lens, right?
Same idea applies here.
If you're not dealing with lenses,
then just ignore everything I just said.
I showed you a really easy one more,
it's just like aware.
But these can be big
complicated joins as well.
It doesn't have to just be a simple WHERE,
it can be literally any
SELECT that you can think of.
It's useful for convenience,
it's also useful for permissions.
So imagine you have
a contractor working with you.
And you have some part of the database
that you need to show the contractor, and
they need to be able to SELECT FROM, and
you can't show them all of the database.
You could create a view, and then you
could give them access to just the view.
From their perspective, it's a table they
can do whatever they want from it, but
they wouldn't be able to access
anything else in the table.
So from a securities and
permissions kind of point of view,
it's also a useful thing.
Another interesting and useful thing
is I can actually INSERT INTO a view.
Category_id, name, language,
VALUES 2, We should definitely have
a topic about Brian Holt, right?
Absolutely, and just to prove a point too,
despite the fact that this
table only shows English, it's not
gonna verify that as it goes through.
So I'm gonna put this in
as an Italian keyword.
So actually, I wouldn't be able to
select this back out of it because it's
an English table, but
I was able to insert into it Italian.
Again, it's not verifying
the WHERE clause there.
But because there's a one to one
mapping of the view to the table,
it's just like, okay,
you're inserting into this,
you're obviously inserting
into the underlying table.
>> Are you inserting a second
thing with category ID 2 now?
>> So
SELECT * FROM category_names WHERE id = 2.
Or what is it?
Category_id.
So in English its source, but
in Italian [FOREIGN] Brian Holt.
I don't know if you knew that.
I speak Italian, obviously, you don't.
So inserting into the views,
it's a neat trick, but
obviously could see it's
not the most useful thing.
I just thought it was
kind of a funny thing.
>> So it went through the view
into the source statements?
>> Yeah, you can see here what
querying from category means.
Cuz a view doesn't exist, right?
It's just a lens to look
at a table through.
It's a query that gets run, and
then you're selecting from the result set.
That's actually more
accurate than what it is.
>> Is it similar like making
a temporary table or?
>> A temporary table
actually can't store things.
No, it doesn't, cuz I guess it's
just purely transitional, right?
I guess,
depending on what you mean by that, maybe.
We're not talking about temporary
tables today, but if you're doing,
Crazy things and you have to create
intermediary tables to then select from,
and that's more complicated than result
sets, then you can use a temporary table.
If you're thinking about it as
a transitive, cuz it's not transitive,
it's really just what happens is you
run your query against the view.
The view runs the underlying query,
gets all that data, and
then you select from the result
set as if it was a table.
I guess that intermediary there that you
could think of kind of as a temporary
table, I suppose.
>> Yeah, I guess the question came from,
I was Googling other ways to
speed up queries beyond indexes.
And one of them was, use temp tables,
and don't do nested views.
So I was like,
I knew they were different, but
I was kinda trying to figure out, yeah,
>> Yeah,
you can have views on views, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So is it faster to query the view
than to query the original table with
the WHERE clause for English?
>> It's probably about the same,
I would imagine.
This is not a performance tool.
That's a good thing to keep in mind.
This is a convenience and security tool.
>> The quality of life.
>> Yeah.
That was 641.
What was our original query?
CREATE VIEW
Actually, the same.
>> It's exactly the same.
[LAUGH]
>> Yeah.
So it's gonna be similar, but I could see
the point of, if you're having views,
go through views, go through views,
the hops aren't free.
They're probably pretty cheap,
but they aren't free.